With the Rising Cost of Health Care in Our
Country.  The level of costing required to get proper treatment in a good system is that which
runs into lax.  And
when the time comes, ma'am, you don't know how much it will cost.  Will it go for Rs
500 or Rs 5
lakh?  Therefore, health insurance
is very important.  A heart issue gets created.
Sometimes it is cancer, sometimes it is accidental.
We need health insurance
and it should be there as per your premium
and how much total cover you need.   Are
treatment costs based on the secondarily prevailing market cost?  According to that
you should have insurance cover.
Insurance has a room rent capping of Rs 5000.   The
room rent was 6000.  How much will he have to pay for
four days?  ₹000 four or it is as per your requirement.
Insurance doesn't work like that.  She says
your eligibility was Rs 5000.  You
used a room worth Rs 6000.  So you have used 20%
extra of what you were eligible for.  So the
total bill multiplied by 20% is your
payability.  Because you
took a room for ₹6,000 instead of ₹5,000, you have to pay 20% of that ₹2 lakh,
that is ₹40,000.
Instead, if you had taken a room whose room rate
was Rs 4000, then there would have been no payability on your ₹1 lakh.  We will
not talk about any disease in Sehatnama today.  There is no cure for any disease.
No exercise, no medicine.
But today we are going to talk about a very important topic.
Health insurance.  At some point
in our lives, someone falls sick
or some incident happens, so
why is health insurance necessary, which one to take,
when to take it, what should be the minimum premium,
what things should be kept in mind, what things should be taken
care of, today only the doctor is
with us who will talk about this in detail,
definitely watch this video till the end, it is going to be
very useful for you.  So, Dr.
Siddharth Agarwal
is an orthopedic surgeon but today he will talk about health
insurance.  Welcome sir.  So you yourself
suggested that it is very important for us to talk about this.
Yes sir.  So the first
question about health is that many of us are aware.
Those who have taken health insurance.
Many people say what is the need to
take health insurance?  You keep paying the premium every year.
Which ones are falling sick?   I have
added money for when something happens.  I will get the treatment done.
A ma'am, this is a very good question whether it is
needed or not?  Ma'am buys a car and gets it
insured.  Why do you get it done
?  It is necessary.  There are two reasons for getting it done.
One it is legal it is illegal by the law that
we cannot drive.  We get a very
cheap insurance of ₹1000 for him.
Yes.  Third party.  Third party.  Yes.  But
still we take proper insurance.
Why?  Because the day a car
accident happens, the level of
expenditure that comes up to cover that expenditure,
similarly with the
rising cost of health care in our
country, the level of costing required to get proper treatment in a good system is that which
runs into laxity.  So,
when the difficult time comes, ma'am, you do
n't know how much it will take.  Will it go for Rs 500
or Rs 5 lakh?  You don't have to look at anyone else at that time.
You should have a backup.
Therefore, health insurance is very important.  And
believe me ma'am,
everyone needs it somewhere or the other, sometime or the other.  Everyone gets sick.
Sometimes it is dengue, sometimes some heart
issue gets created.  Sometimes it is
cancer, sometimes it is accidental.
We need health insurance and it
must be there.  Now the next question is which
health insurance to take?  There are so many
companies in the market that are
providing health insurance.
How to choose the right health insurance?  All
insurance companies are absolutely fine.
First and Foremost.  Ok.  No insurance
company works with wrong intentions.
We customers try to bend their rules.
By default, I get so many
requests that it hurts me.
How much time has passed?  It's been 6 months.  Ok,
good.  Will this be an operation or is it expensive?  Sir, get
insurance done, it will be covered.
We bend those rules.  If we
use insurance by following its rules then
all insurances are good.  So
long as we don't try to make them crooked.
Today the cover rate of some company is good, the
claim rate is good.  After 2 years she will be down.
Someone else will be up.  So, this up
and down cycle will continue.  To
decide according to today's statistics
that this is good and this is bad.  That
is not important.  The important thing is that you
stick with the company you have taken
year after year.  There is a huge difference in the value of insurance which is 2 years
old and
insurance which is 8 years old.
Your 8 year old insurance is from any
company.  Your claim is bound to be passed.
Ok?  The insurance you are calling for 2 years or 1 year is from
any company.   No matter
how good the claim rate is, the claim will get
stuck and will be lost.  But
questions arise in their mind that if they get
injured so many days after taking insurance, is there
any problem?  So it is
important which company's you are buying.  It
matters how long you stick with loyalty.
One more point on this is insurance
porting.  Just like there is mobile number portability
, there is also insurance portability.  You
took an insurance today, paid for it for 3 years, after 3 years the
company is not satisfied.  You
can switch companies with the same benefits
continued.  Ok?  Even if this is said, but when
you switch to a new company and you
put up a claim, you have been in that company for less than
one year or two years.  So the company
looks at your records with equal scrutiny and the insurance claim becomes a little
difficult.  So my suggestion is to
select any one company and
stick to it.  Do not change, all are same.   There are
19 advantages in some.  There is a loss of 20% in some cases.  There is
no big difference.
AnyOne Company Just Stick To It.  All are good.
So what things should be kept in mind?  Of what
things?  Well, first of all, how many
people do you want to take?  Health
insurance.  Yes.  You want to take it alone
, you want to take it for your entire family.   A
lot depends on
how much your premium is and how much total cover you
need.  Secondly,
what treatment costs are being charged at prevailing market costs.
Your insurance cover should be accordingly.
Ok?  Suppose I think
an accident happened today.  A simple
fracture needs to be operated on.
We take an average expenditure of Rs 2 lakh in Chandigarh.
So if I am taking a family floater cover,
I would like a minimum insurance of Rs 5 to 10 lakh
and I will go by looking at what I want for the next 5 years, so what is the
total amount of
insurance you want to take depending on the
present market cost of the treatment.
What is the right time to buy good health insurance?  It happens many times,
like nowadays marriages are taking place at the age of 25, 26, 27, 28, 30 years.  There are
young couples.
What do they think is needed right now?  Right now we
are young and while doing that we become children.
He keeps going.
What is Right Edge for you?
Earliest when the child is born, he should be
enrolled in the insurance.  Simple.
This is my belief.  Like family floater
covers.  A child came to the house.  You have
an option.  You can add it to your insurance.
You should get it done.  Because disease will
not come with any time and age.  Nowadays,
even small children develop such major
illnesses.  And believe me, the
expenditure for long-term diseases is very high.
And families are actually drained out.  So it should be
done earliest.  But if we
talk about youngsters, when they go
independent out of their house, when they go
to professionals like 20, 21, 22 years old, that is
the time when they should definitely have their own
insurances. When they start driving two-wheeler or four-
wheeler,
they should have insurance at that time. Okay, and what is the
minimum insurance premium that you
suggest? If we talk about it as of today, then 10 lakhs has not gone
anywhere. Minimum 10 lakhs per person. 10
lakhs has not gone anywhere as of today. With the
present prevailing cost, if someone has to
stay in ICU for a week, the bill becomes 57 lakhs.
So 10 lakhs is a basic
cover which I think should be there for anyone in Chandigarh or any other city. If someone of
35, 40, 45,
50 years has not taken health insurance yet, then is there any
harm in it? Now it is a very
difficult task. The insurance company gets your entire
medical checkup done before they give you the
insurance after particular age. So in case they
find  Anything which can lead to long
term issues they can reject your
insurance request then they
can suppose they get your blood test done,
heart echo done, ECG done
and they find something where they can deny you that
you are not eligible for insurance ok
so the earlier the better in fact 30 plus
whenever you apply for insurance they always get
your health checkup done so if they suppose
they find anything major and you get
rejected you cannot take an
insurance so better to start early and to continue without any
break.  Any
break in the insurance continuity is
considered zero.  Then you start all over again
from zero.  Good.  So it is not that it took
two years.  What did he tell you to
do?  You will apply for three years and then next time you will
apply from zero.
Then it is his discretion whether he
considers you eligible or not.  Hmm.  So hence
start early, the later you take the premium will be
higher and again there is a risk that he may not
give it to you or refuse to give it to you.  Many times it is said
that money is being lost every year.  We
are all fine.  So that hurts people that it is
good that you are fine.
Ma'am, it is the same thing that got the investigation done.  If it becomes normal then it
feels like the money has been wasted.  Hey, it's a
good thing there is no disease.  That is a way
to think.  But in the end, even if a single claim is made,
all the money becomes equal.  And what is this,
you paid premium for three years or four years, it keeps getting accumulated and gets
collapsed, so yes, the
premium is Rs 2000, from that date
what is that date, it has to be paid again next year, it is
not accumulative, you have some policies, some
plans which
link investment etc. but more
and less health insurances are being given yearly,
that ends, when you go to get some health insurance, you have to
give some information also.  Pre-
existing illness is a very major column.
If every insurance has any disease
or not?  Pre-existing illnesses and
procedures: If at the time of taking insurance
you have diabetes, hypertension,
thyroid or any such disease which has
long term impact, then the
insurance company takes it very seriously.
And if you do not disclose any pre-existing diseases
or have had any procedures in the past.
Suppose you have
undergone valve bladder surgery, hernia surgery
, fracture operation and you do
not disclose it and in future while
putting up a claim the insurance company
finds it then they can reject your claim
on the basis that you did
not disclose the pre existing things.  So, whatever
you know and remember about your insurance, you
must write it down and fill it in the form so that
your insurance is not rejected tomorrow on that basis.  For that
matter I will tell you a very funny incident.
I had to operate on a boy's shoulder.
We got full approval for left shoulder insurance.  Had the
surgery done.  When the final
sent some how they found out that the child was
operated the boy was operated for opposite
elbow one and half years back for some injury.
So let me ask that there was hospitalization 1 and a half years ago.
Send his record.
So he was neither available with him and we said it is
irrelevant that he has to undergo surgery for his left shoulder
injury.  Right elbow
happened 2 years ago.  It has no relevance a year and a half ago.
Despite all the repeated
requests in everything, they rejected the
claim one and a half lakh claims on the basis that
you could not furnish the records of a pre-
existing disease and the boy had to go to the
family to shell out that money.  Just
because the insurance company
found something that happened a year and a half ago that
they didn't disclose that has no
connection but to them.
For them, ma'am can get stuck in their rules and regulations.  So
always declare all your pre-
existing illnesses and any procedures
you may have that may help in the long run.
Does health insurance cover all diseases
?  Ma'am, this is a very important
question.  Health insurance
excludes certain things.  Such as dental
treatments, plastic surgery,
physiotherapy, earlier maternity that is
delivery and child birth was also excluded.
Now it is covered in some insurances and
excluded in some.  There is a
list of long procedures which are
not covered in insurance.  So whenever we buy
an insurance, we should go
through the exclusion criteria to see
what things are excluded.
Exclusion is not the end, that must be seen.  That must be
seen.  Any
health insurance agent will
tell you this.  If you ask them,
they will give you the features of that policy that
these things are included in it and these are
excluded which are permanent
exclusions.  There are two things.  One is
temporary exclusions.  One is permanent.   It
is permanent whether it has been 2 years, 5
years or 10 years.  They will
not be covered at all.  Like normal dental
treatments and plastic surgeries.   It
is temporary that for a few years there are ligament
injuries, like shoulder injuries etc.  Most
of the insurance companies do not cover for two years.
We are E Replacements.  Not covered for three years.
Hernia and gall bladder
surgeries also have a waiting period of one and a half to two years.
So these
are temporary exclusions.  So
while taking any insurance policy,
we must read the exclusion criteria.  You should ask every agent for the criteria of the
policy he is suggesting to you.
Another thing
we should look at is room rent capping.   This
is a very interesting point.  You went to the hospital and
I gave you the insurance. Yes, I have an
insurance of Rs 5 lakh.  Please treat me.  The
bill came to ₹ lakh.  The room rent for the room you stay in is
₹6,000 per day.  So
you stayed for four days.  Now how much will that cost
?  We offer room rent capping of ₹5,000.  The
room rent was ₹6,000.
How much will you have to pay for four days?  ₹000 four
or it is as per your requirement.  Insurance does
n't work like that.  She says your eligibility
was Rs 5000.  You used a room worth Rs 6000.
So you have used 20% extra of what
you were eligible for.  So the total bill multiplied
by 20% is your payability.
She will count the total bill.
You have to pay a percentage of your total bill which is the percentage you have deducted from the room rent.
Because you
took a room for ₹6,000 instead of ₹5,000, you have to pay 20% of that ₹2 lakh, that is
₹40,000.  Instead, if
you had taken the room whose room rent was Rs 4,000.
Then there is no payability on your ₹2 lakh.
But because you have taken a room above your eligibility,
you will get payment in that proportion.
So how important is this,
which one can take the most of the room for this
?  Yes, room rent eligibility and
insurance are mentioned in it.  Yes, up
to what cost of room rent eligibility
you can take a room is
clearly mentioned in your insurance policy document.
Which exclusion criteria are these
clearly mentioned.  Ok.  So it will not happen
that if you take six then it will not be Rs. 1000
but four days of regular payment and everyone comes to know about this only
when he pays for the first time.
Hey, what happened?  We also came to know about it
when for the first time one of our patients received such a
huge
payment in percentage wise manner, then we understood that this is a trick.
Ok?  So this is one difference.  So you should always
check your rumours and eligibility.  If the
average room rent in your area is Rs 5,000 to Rs 6,000,
then you should take one with eligibility of Rs 10,000.
Because after four years from today your
eligibility is ₹10,000.  But room rents
will increase.  We One Is Room Rent
Eligibility.  Second is exclusion
criteria.  Third is waiting period.  There
is a waiting period for many diseases that
they start getting covered after that much time.
Ok?  Again, if you read the waiting period,
in some cases, some diseases are not included for five to five years.
That claim is not
received.  Nor is it mentioned in their documents
that there is a waiting period of so many years for these diseases.
You should read, then
what is the use of health insurance?  You should read
the documents.  Hmm, what
is the waiting period for which disease?  Every policy has a
different waiting period.  So take what suits you.
Ok, first you have to study which health
insurance you have, there is another way for this,
when you get the policy, there is a
free look period of first 15 days, in that you can
cancel the insurance by studying the document
and you can accept it free of
cost, so you can read it at that time also
that what all am I getting in my 15 day free look period,
what all am I not getting
because many times the agents are
not able to tell in such detail, they themselves do
not know and we also do not know
that we have to ask things, they know, so
in this process we miss out.
And the purpose of making this video is that it is
better for us to
spend 2 hours when the document comes.  Read each and every fine print
carefully to see
what is written.  Well, when we make a claim, do
we also have to pay something?   Yes.
Why?  Our premium is going up.   Yes yes.
I had a patient.  His claim was
family protection insurance of ₹1 crore.
We performed a small procedure on his son.   A
bill of ₹1500 was made.  His payability in that became ₹1900.
That's why I was very much unhappy
that sir there is insurance of ₹1 crore.
I am paying the bill of ₹1500 in that.  There
is a difference from that.  There are two parts of insurance that
you have to pay.  One is non-medical
items.  Like there are some items in the
bill which the insurance company puts in non-medical.
Like gloves, beta-deadens, caps,
masks, few other consumables, which
they have also made a comprehensive
list which is available on every website of every insurance
that what are non-medical items
?  For example, if the diapers are used, they are
not covered, there is no insurance. If
10 diapers cost ₹700 are used in your hospital mission, then the
health insurance will exclude them and
add your payment. So similarly, there are non-
medical items which the
patient has to pay in every insurance and
the list is almost similar for all companies
and you cannot do much in that. Some
insurances do not separate them but more or less, that is a
fixed list, so that is not a very
huge amount, 1000, 2000, 5000, 10000,
that is the basic amount.  Ok.  So but this comes
copayment.  So we should always be knowing that
yes, some part has to be given and ma'am, if 95% is covered and Rs
500 is spent, it is not such a big deal.  The
second important part is
copayment.
Generally, these are corporate insurance policies.
You joined a job in a company.
We are running all the employees there.
The cover that you have done, which covers your family,
your parents, your children and
your wife, mostly has a clause in it, there is a
copayment of 10 to 15%,
that whatever hospital bill comes, whatever
claim is there, 15% of that will be your copayment.
Ok?  So this is the second clause.  So
you must read these two features of your policy
to know how much your co-payment is.  So that it is
not a surprise.  If he has written 20% then
you will have to pay that.  Sometimes
individual policies also have a co-payment clause
but generally it is less.  Ok.
Good.  So when anyone gets hospitalized or undergoes any
surgery, if a claim is made then the payment is received immediately
or it may also get rejected.
Reject Rejection is a very big problem.
Why do we feel rejected?  Hum But
Rejections Do Happen.  There are good 3 to
4% rejection rates in insurance.  The most
common reasons for rejections are improper
information and improper documentation.
Most of our tendencies are human.
Modify a few facts.
You slipped off the bike.  You
want it written that I fell at home.  When we
modify facts.  Insurance
companies have one simple tendency to
look for loopholes.  That a loophole was found and
your claim became questionable.  So when
you modify the information you provide, somewhere
you make a mistake, they will
ask you, they will ask your father, they will ask your mother,
some information will be wrong and the
claim gets rejected, so the
only way to decrease the rejection rates
is to give correct and true information, okay whether the
claim is passed or not, but you tell the truth
and the insurance company is
not sitting there to reject it, we do not forgive those mistakes, if
you tell the truth, your claims will be
rejected to a minimum extent.  The second one is that
if you try to get it on non-eligible criteria, you get
rejected.  Otherwise the rejection
rate is not that big.  False infection leads
to rejection.  One more thing that customers may
not know.  If the insurance company is able
to find out that you have furnished a
significant false information.   They can
register a case of fraud against you
and they can and you can get blacklisted
for future life from taking any other
insurance.  If you are blacklisted today,
you will not be able to take any insurance in the future.
You will be blacklisted in a centralized manner.  So
avoid
giving any false infection.  This happens both
to the hospitals and the patients.  All
health insurance is cashless.  You
go and get admitted and your
insurance company will pay the hospital bill.  it happens
?  More or less if the
hospital has an agreement with the insurance
company you can avail the cashless facility at
that hospital.  So you just have to enquire
with the hospital whether the hospital is insured
with that insurance company or not.  That's
not that big a problem with it.  Thank you
so much for this valuable
[music]